I learned the truth as a child and since then have always had the struggle to conduct
myself in a way that pleases Jehovah.
I don't find it easy to control my temper or to keep calm.
When I first arrived in this country, a brother treated me in an unkind manner and was not
very hospitable.
Because of this, I started feeling resentment toward him.
So much so that when he called me on the phone, I spoke to him very rudely.
My wife had to help me, reminding me that both the brother and I are imperfect and that
the feelings I had toward him were not healthy.
During that time I felt awful and really bad about my relationship with Jehovah.
Discipline is never a cause for joy.
And especially when I receive a letter from the branch correcting and counseling me for
something I have not been doing right.
It certainly makes me feel uncomfortable.
But I try to reflect on the fact that acting in a cord with Jehovah's wisdom will bring
me blessings, prayer to Jehovah, Bible principles, and trusting that Jehovah will give me the
needed direction has really helped me.
As the Psalms mention, Jehovah is aware that we are dust.
It says, if he were saying to me, son, you make so many mistakes, but I love you anyway.
I can use you in my service and I know that you will succeed.
And of course, it's possible because Jehovah has always helped his servants.
All of them, from able down to our day, all of us who are serving him are imperfect people.
One day I was doing some electrical work and I was electrocuted.
When the doctor saw me, he decided that it was necessary to amputate both my hands.
I had lost my hands.
There was so much I wouldn't be able to do.
How would I work?
How would I care for my children, for my wife?
The first thing I asked for was a Bible to see if I would be able to turn the pages.
And I could.
That made me so happy.
Now I am able to work to support my family.
I work as a painter, welder and carpenter.
I can even drive myself to and from work.
I have been able to work on my spiritual goals as I continue serving Jehovah, like being
an elder in the congregation and above all, helping my family to continue to grow spiritually.
Keeping myself occupied with spiritual matters has meant that I don't dwell on my disability.
In fact, sometimes I even forget that I am disabled.
Jehovah has always sustained me.
Since the day of the accident, I have seen how Jehovah got by means of my family, my
wife and kids, and the brothers and sisters in the congregation has helped me to move on.
Once, after giving a talk, a young girl came up to me and gave me a letter and a drawing
she had done of me.
She thanked me and encouraged me by saying that very soon, Jehovah would give me my hands
back in the paradise, things like that, like being able to hold my wife's hand.
My children's too, to carry them and play with them.
That's my hope.
And I have complete confidence that Jehovah will bring it about.
I was arrested and sentenced to two and a half years in prison for my neutrality.
The surroundings in prison were unfamiliar and overwhelming.
I didn't know anyone and I didn't know what to expect from them.
I was the only witness.
I was continually praying to Jehovah for power and strength to be able to resolve any problems
in a peaceful manner and withstand any difficulties.
In that situation only prayer and God's word brought me comfort.
But then my Bible was taken away from me.
It was returned to me though sometime later.
I was allowed to have literature on one condition that I would not preach.
True, preaching wasn't allowed, but that didn't mean I wasn't allowed to speak, did it?
I was determined that no matter what happened, I would remain faithful.
My good conduct had a positive effect on the other prisoners.
Some of them started reading the Bible.
Quite often I couldn't even get my turn to read it.
I didn't swear and I kept myself physically clean.
This didn't go unnoticed by the prison officials.
One day they said to me, because you are morally and physically clean, we want you to be our
head cook.
That's how I became their chef.
I constantly saw evidence of Jehovah's hand.
The ministry was amazing.
There were months when I served up to 120 hours.
I placed more than 100 pieces of literature.
Thanks to Jehovah I was able to stay in full-time ministry the whole time I was in prison.
This filled my heart with joy.
The thought at 1 Peter 5-9, which says that the entire association of brothers is experiencing
the same kind of suffering I was, strengthened me.
I am confident that no matter what circumstances we find ourselves in, no matter who is around
us, Jehovah will never abandon us.
The day for my release finally arrived.
It was a complete surprise for my mother.
I hadn't told her.
I will never forget that moment when we were reunited.